# Exercise: Make a cup of coffee

## Introduction
In this exercise, you will practice the use of an algorithm to make a cup of instant coffee. The purpose is to lay out the steps required in order to get the final product. 

## Instructions
__Step 1:__ Start with the inputs - what is needed to make a cup of instant coffee?

__Step 2:__ Think about all the steps required in the physical aspect of making a cup of instant coffee.

__Step 3:__ Consider the edge cases of optional things like milk or sugar, some people may want it. 

__Step 4:__ The algorithm when complete should have as its final result a cup of coffee.

__Tips: Planning is key with any algorithm. Make sure you have all the steps neatly laid out.__

## Solution

__Input__

_Ingredients required:_
- Cup
- Hot water
- Coffee granules

_Optional:_
- Milk
- Cream 
- Sugar

__Output__
A cup of coffee.

__Steps__
1. Add drinking water to an electric kettle. 

2. Put the kettle on to boil water.

3. While waiting, prepare coffee.

    4. Add coffee granules to the cup.

    5. If water is boiled, pour water into a cup, else continue to wait.

6. If milk or cream is required, add and stir.

7. If sugar is required, add and stir.

8. Return coffee.

## Self-review
1. True or False:  While writing pseudocodes, we ideally put instructions for commands on the same line.
   - True
   - False
   ```
   Answer: False
   Explanation: Pseudocode describes the algorithmic flow and does not have instructions that may be confusing to read
   ```

2. What variable type would be best suited for determining if the kettle was boiling?
   - float
   - string
   - boolean
   - list
   ```
   Answer: boolean
   Explanation: Boolean values are well suited for this type as they can be checked for true or false.
   ```

3. Assuming milk and sugar are booleans and both are True. What conditional statement is correct for a user who wants both milk and sugar in their coffee?
   - if milk or sugar:
   - if milk and sugar:
   - while milk and sugar:
   - for milk and sugar:
   ```
   Answer: if milk and sugar:
   Explanation: The if and statement will check for both to be True.
   ```